CHAPTER 1



“Sensors are picking up a meta-space discrepancy, Captain. Narrowing the receiver band to confirm. Probably just a ghost signal. Distortion from a gravitationally-lensed supernova signal or something like that.” The captain of the ISS Kerouac sipped his morning coffee and nodded. “We should just rechristen the ship ISS Ghosthunter and make it official.” The sensor officer chuckled. “Yes, sir.” He took another sip of his coffee. Meta-space ghosts aside, Captain Disraeli of the heavy cruiser ISS Kerouac was having an awful day. For starters, he’d just found out that because of the recent real estate bubble on Britannia, he’d most likely lose half a million credits in some beachfront property he’d invested in last year. He shook his graying head at the thought—there goes any hope of an early retirement. Next, it came to his attention that he was about to lose his chief engineer and best friend to a reassignment. That was something every Integrated Defense Force officer had to be prepared for, but it still came as a shock since Admiral Yarbrough had promised him there would be no more crew rotations among his senior staff for at least the next year, and dammit all if he was going to go on these deep space patrol missions with some tight-ass newbie lieutenant straight out of IDF academy. His reply message to Admiral Yarbrough had not been professional, and it would probably earn him some type of bureaucratic reprisal from the old battle-ax. But worst of all, he’d lost his fifth straight game of Kluger’s Squares to his first officer, a bubbly red-headed commander whose shrill laughter anytime she won or found something even remotely humorous not only got on his nerves but also created within him the burning desire to wrap his lips around a .45 blaster and just end it all. She wasn’t that bad. In fact, she was the best first officer he’d ever had. Professional, friendly, and utterly capable. But, sweet mother of Stalin—that laugh. Still scowling, he swiveled his chair to face the sensor station, mug still in hand. “Midshipman? Status of sensor sweep?” he said between sips. The young man, barely out of IDF Academy himself, nodded. “Almost complete, sir. No abnormalities from the meta-space sensors, and all the EM frequencies are quiet. The meta-space discrepancy we read earlier must have been a ghost reading off our own transmitters.” It was an exercise this bridge crew had repeated three times a day, every day, for the last six months of their most recent assignment: the dreaded deep space border patrol. The most boring, uneventful, pointless assignment possible for an advanced Pulsar class heavy cruiser like the ISS Kerouac. Border patrol was for the old scout cruisers, or even the Legacy Fleet. It was not an assignment suitable for a state-of-the-art military vessel complete with smart-steel armor and petawatt class laser systems. And the border in question was a border in name only. Hell, on the other side there was probably nothing. Just more stars, nebulae, interstellar gas and dust. But mostly, nothing. But they were still out there. Somewhere. At least, that was still the current military doctrine. They were the Swarm. No one knew what they called themselves, and so naturally humanity had come up with all manner of names for them, some insulting, some descriptive. The Swarm, Pixies, the Greeners (a play on “little green men”, he supposed), Ghosts, along with several other more colorful designations, such as Sodders, Cumrats, Pusbots, and a few that even he blushed to repeat.They’d earned their monikers—an Earth nearly devastated seventy-five years ago served as a testament to their unpleasantness. But they’d disappeared. As suddenly as they’d come. And since then, Earth’s Integrated Defense Force had patrolled, ever vigilant, guarding humanity against their return. And in all the decades of reconstruction and prosperity that followed, the fear of the Swarm had waned—people had started to question whether the Swarm even still existed at all. Hell, we’d beaten them last time, right? Maybe we’d beaten them for good. Permanent extermination. “Thank you, Midshipman.” He turned to the navigation stations that occupied a third of the bridge. “When sensor sweeps of sector 521 conclude, prepare for q-jump to sector 522.” “Aye, sir,” said the chief navigator, an older woman, near retirement herself. Captain Disraeli inclined his head in approval at her—he liked the woman. Reminded him of his grandmother, years ago, before she died. Stiff. Proper. But swore like a sailor whenever her assistant navigator’s calculations were slightly off. He raised his head, which the “all the bells and whistles” computer immediately recognized as a sign to prepare to address someone in another section of the ship. “Disraeli to Commander Gooding, report to the bridge.” A few minutes later his XO appeared, saluting the marine guard as she crossed the threshold to the bridge, which sensibly resided deep within the armored core of the ship rather than being perched precariously on the top of the vessel like an old-style soda can on the fence, ready to be picked off as alien target practice. “You called, sir?” Commander Gooding took her position at the center of the operations center. “We’re about to q-jump to the next sector.” “Well, it’s about time. I think we’ve had far too much fun in sector 521. Shall I recall the crew from shore leave early?” She winked at him. He forced a strained smile back. She was always making her jokey small talk-talk—in reality it annoyed the hell out of him, but he couldn’t let his crew know that. And she meant well. “Indeed, Commander. Let’s try to keep the frivolity to a minimum in sector 522—we’ve got an important mission to accomp—” “Sir! I….” A voice called out, but trailed off. Disraeli snapped his head over to the sensor station where the voice had originated. “Well?” The midshipman cocked his head in confusion, scrutinizing his readout. “Sorry, sir. It looked like there was a massive quantum fluctuation in the background vacuum energy, but it’s gone. Running diagnostics now—could’ve been another grounding problem with the sensor array.” Disraeli turned back to his XO. “Well! That was the most excitement we’ve had around here in weeks.” He heard scattered chuckling around the bridge. Still, after the ghost meta-space reading earlier, it was suspicious. But nothing Gooding couldn’t handle—he had to get to sickbay. “As I was saying, Commander, please take the next shift. I’ve got a doctor’s appointment this afternoon that I don’t want to miss.” “Yes, sir. Is Doctor Evans giving you a sucker this time?” “No, but he told me that my fifth visit is free, and I’m cashing in.” He winked at her. She didn’t need to know about his decade-old case of Rigellian warts. Especially since the only place one tended to contract it was in the red light district of New Mumbai on Rigel Three. He stood up, grabbed his coffee mug, and walked to the door, saluting the marines with a half-hearted wave. But stopped mid-stride. He held still, putting his hand out to feel the bulkhead nearby. A faint vibration.  That shouldn’t be there. “Sir?” The XO stepped towards him, a questioning look on her face. “Midshipman,” he said, momentarily ignoring his XO, “what’s the status of that diagnostic?”The young man fingered his console. “Completed, sir. All systems functioning normally.” The tremble intensified. Now his XO and the rest of the bridge crew could feel it—he could see it in their faces. He bolted back to his station. “Full sensor sweep! I want to know what in the blazes that is.” He raised his head. “Engineering, Disraeli. What the hell is going on? Is there an engine test I wasn’t told about?” The faint vibration grew to a shudder. “No, sir,” replied the chief engineer. “Then what the devil is this shaking?” A pause at the other end, and before the engineer could reply the captain heard an odd noise from one of the sensor stations. The midshipman’s face had gone white, and a choking noise escaped his lips. He pointed a shaking hand at his console. “Midshipman?” The young man fiddled with his console and sent the image on his screen to the large holo-viewer on the starboard wall. Captain Disraeli turned to look at the screen. And dropped his coffee mug, which shattered in a steamy puddle at his feet. “Holy Mother of God….”


CHAPTER 2


Admiral Ryten glared at the report before tossing aside the datapad. It was highly unusual, but from everything he knew about Captain Disraeli, it was not entirely surprising. The man often showed little regard for authority and much less for regulations and procedure. Probably why Admiral Zingano had practically banished him from the core to the periphery, resigning the old officer to patrol duty. “Ensign Taylor, please check the data logs for the past 48 hours. It could be that their regular reports just got lost in the bog of bureaucratic manure we’re drowning in.” The young woman nodded. “Yes, sir, but I personally review every report that comes back from the patrols in the periphery sectors. I’m telling you they haven’t reported in for two days.” “Anything unusual in their last report?” She shook her head. “Nothing. They’d completed their scans of sector 520 and had just q-jumped out to 521. That was the last we heard from them.” Admiral Ryten drummed his fingers on his desk. Damn. Captain Disraeli may have held standard fleet regulations in low regard, but to Ryten’s knowledge the man had never missed a daily report. Besides, it wasn’t his job anyway. It was his XO’s. And Ryten had served with her. She never missed a report. The woman practically breathed paperwork. “Very well. If they don’t file it in the next five hours, send a scout ship out there.” “Aye, sir."


CHAPTER 3


Captain Tim Granger shook his head. He couldn’t believe it. After all this time, after all his years of dedicated service. All the awards, medallions—every worthless pin, bar, and insignia that adorned his left breast meant nothing. They were taking her away from him. Dammit, they were actually doing it. “Admiral Yarbrough, I don’t understand. The Constitution wasn’t scheduled to be decommissioned for at least another five years.” The thin, gray-haired woman gestured for him to sit. He remained on his feet in quiet defiance, eliciting a drawn-out sigh from the admiral. She sounded like a worn-out school teacher, and it irked him. “Tim, you know how ancient the Old Bird is. I’m sorry, but the High Command has decided to—” “Nonsense,” he interrupted. “She’s in as good a shape as any ship in the fleet. Why Constitution? Why now? Dammit, Vicky, I—” “Tim, the decision is made.” She winced when he swore under his breath. “Look, I did what I could. I tried to extend the decision out another year, but they wouldn’t have it.” Granger stared at the pictures on the wall, Admiral Yarbrough posed in handshakes with various government dignitaries—including President Avery—a smattering of favorite vacation destinations, and, of course beautiful shots of all her previous commands, the ISS Legacy and the ISS Baltimore included. Magnificent ships. Just like his beloved Constitution. His home. “It’s the Eagleton Commission, isn’t it? They’re forcing the militarycuts, and Command decided the easiest way to comply with reductions is to scrap her, didn’t they?” “I won’t pretend I can read their minds….” She trailed off when he shot a skeptical look at her. “But, you’re probably right.” He finally sat down, slumping heavily into the seat across from the Admiral. He remembered sitting in the same chair in the same office fifteen years earlier, when he accepted command of the Old Bird. The Constitution was old even then. Hell, she was old during the Swarm War seventy-five years ago. But they built them right back then. They built them to last. He sighed, and searched for words. But there was nothing he could say, so he resorted to nostalgia. “When we were at the academy, things were different. You still remember old Commodore Vickers?” She grinned. “How could I forget? Ninety-five years old and still teaching Orbital Tactical Theory.” Granger stroked his chin, rough from neglecting his morning shave. “I was a year ahead of you, so you might not have been there, but one day he burst through the door of the classroom, waving his cane—bashing the chalkboard and the screen and his desk with it—screaming about a new Swarm invasion—” He broke off as he saw her chuckle, and descended into laughter himself as he tried to finish. She finished his story. “And then he pulled the fire alarm, and caused the evacuation of half of the academy before they sorted out what happened … yeah, I remember that. Who could forget?” Granger wiped his eye. “Who could forget indeed? All it turned out to be was him overhearing some old archived press reports that they were playing in the history class as he walked down the hall. Thought he was listening to a live news feed.” Admiral Yarbrough stood up and pulled a small bottle out of the cabinet behind her, along with two glasses. She offered, and Granger nodded. “Poor old man—probably scared the living daylights out of him. Didn’t he die just a few years after?”“He did.” Granger swallowed some of the liquid she’d offered him and grimaced. Jack Daniels. Damn, she broke out the good stuff for him. He coughed, and winced more—he’d been coughing more lately, sometimes with pain. It was probably time to schedule that checkup with Doc Wyatt. “But you know the thing about Commodore Vickers? He was there. He was there. He was old enough to have actually served during the Swarm war. He knew what it was like. The action. The danger. The casualties. He was a goddamned war hero. Blew up half a dozen Swarm capital ships with his own light cruiser before they finally got him, and he drifted in high-earth orbit in just his space suit for almost three days before IDF found him—mind you, that’s when space suits were rated for only one day at vacuum.” “Hardy old bastard, wasn’t he?” She threw back her own glass and winced. He stared at her knowingly, wondering if she was on the High Command’s side or not, if she had actually tried to dissuade them from decommissioning the Constitution. “And you know what he would say to the Eagleton Commission?” “As I recall, he was not fond of politicians,” she replied, pouring another two fingers of the amber liquid. “He’d hobble his way into that capitol chamber, smack a few of the senators upside their heads with his cane, and lecture them about constant vigilance and preparedness. He’d be spinning in his grave if he knew how deep the military cuts were.” “Well, we are over seventy years out from the end of the war, and not even a glimpse of the Swarm in all that time. Not even the barest hint. It’s natural that people are letting down their guard. Hell, it was natural to do that forty years ago.” “Natural, and stupid.” He finished off his drink and slid the cup back over to the Admiral. “They’re out there, Vicky, and we’re pulling our pants down and pleasuring ourselves, thinking no one is watching.” “Well, let’s just hope the Cumrats aren’t voyeurs,” she said with awink. He snorted, and slammed back the second glass she’d poured for him. “We didn’t win the war because we were stronger than them, Vicky. We didn’t win because we were better or smarter. We won because of luck. We won because they up and left for no reason at all. If they hadn’t, Earth would be a graveyard and all our colonies destroyed. If they come back, do you really think we’ll be so lucky? If we’re not prepared….” Admiral Yarbrough interrupted. “I agree, Tim. But those are decisions above our pay grade. For now, there’s nothing to do but move on.” She regarded him, and scowled. “Look, it’s not like you’re being forced to retire. You’re only sixty-four, for god’s sake. Why are you treating this like your funeral? There are other commands out there—” “But not like the Constitution,” he said, rising to his feet. “Not like the Old Bird. Nothing compares. She’s in a class of her own.” “She’s an outdated hulk of mismatched parts and misfit crew members, Tim! She’s the last of the Legacy Fleet—all the rest of them are mothballed or destroyed. She’s way past her prime. It’s time. No young officer in their right mind ever asks for assignment to the Old Bird.” He poured himself a third glass and held it up to the light, watching as the blue-tinted overhead lights refracted through the amber liquid. “I did. It was my second assignment back as an ensign forty years ago, and when Adams retired fifteen years ago, I jumped at the chance to go back.” She glanced at him skeptically. “You were assigned there because after what you pulled that was the only command they would give you.” “How dare you …” he sneered. Dammit, the alcohol was affecting his verbal filter. He needed to go. “How dare I?” She stood up. “Tim, I’ve been far more than accommodating all these years. I’ve looked the other way. I’ve covered for you. I gave you a chance when no one else would. And that’s what you say to my face? How dare I?” He only scowled at her. “Get off my station,” she said with more force than she meant, forafter a moment her face softened. “Report with the Constitution at Lunar Base in two weeks for decommissioning. There’ll be a nice ceremony. Dignitaries, historians, celebrities … all that shit. You’ll love it. Make a two-minute speech. Eat some expensive hors d’vours. Shake a few hands. Get a little drunk. Then, when it’s over, we can discuss your next assignment.” “I hate speeches.” “I’ll write it for you, then. Dismissed.” “Sir.” He nodded a casual salute, and stepped toward the door. “Tim?” She called out to him as he passed the threshold, and he glanced back. “It won’t be so bad. You’ll like one of the newer frigates the shipyards are putting out. They’re faster than any old clunker from last century.” He nodded with a thin-lipped smile. It was all he could do.  If he spoke again he knew he’d regret it.


CHAPTER 4


Starbase Heroic was built with one thing in mind: rock solid defense. In the aftermath of the Swarm War, the newly united Earth governments vowed to never be caught unawares again and undertook a massive building program, in parallel with Earth’s reconstruction. At the forefront were a series of defensive outposts at the edge of United Earth space, scattered in the direction of space the Swarm had come from, and among these was Starbase Heroic. Admiral Ryten stalked the labyrinthine web of corridors long after the nighttime shift had started, running his hands along the hard steel walls, feeling every pulse, tremor, and vibration from the various ships docking and undocking, the shudder of the power plants deep in the core, the pounding of the marines’ feet as they played basketball on the court two decks above.  It was like a small city, but one armed with several dozen multi-megaton tactical nuclear torpedoes and hundreds of mag-rail guns and laser turrets. No Swarm fleet would ever make it past the Veracruz Sector. At least, not without paying a heavy penalty. He paced the halls because he was worried. The scout ship had left over twenty-four hours earlier, and had not returned. No sign of any report, either. It was damn peculiar—the ship was small and fast enough that if there was any trouble on the other end it shouldn’t have had any problems immediately q-jumping right back to Heroic to raise the alarm. Something was wrong. But what could he do, send another scout ship? Lose another dozen crew members? The Swarm was gone—he’d been one of the few flag officers entrusted with the top-secret report from IDF intel five years ago. Thatreport formed the basis of the decision by the Eagleton Commission to heavily cut back on military spending. The evidence was incontrovertible—all the Swarm’s former haunts deep within their space were completely and utterly deserted. Entire underground cities left uninhabited. Desolate. The top brass at IDF intel assumed they’d all been killed off in some kind of plague or infestation, though the lack of bodies made that hard to prove. But the fact remained that they were gone. Ryten continued down the hall, feeling the rising vibration of the power plant as he neared the core of the station, and turned the corner into the Operations Center, saluting the two marines stationed at the entrance. “Anything yet, Ensign Taylor?” he asked the woman at communications.  “No, sir. Nothing from the scout ship, and nothing from the Kerouac.” Ryten drummed his fingers on his desk before coming to a decision. “Very well. Prepare a report for IDF CENTCOM. Tell them the details of the situation and ask for guidance.” “You think it’s the Swarm?” He shook his head. “No. We have reason to believe they no longer pose a threat. But the Russian Confederation?” “You don’t really think….” Ensign Taylor trailed off, but Ryten finished her thought. “That the Russians would dare start anything? They’ve been blocking our expansion plans for decades now. Every time we bring up the idea of new settlements in the United Earth Council, they veto. I’m starting to wonder if maybe the bastards have got plans of their own out in the border sectors—there’s plenty of habitable planets out there. Plenty of resource-rich territory to exploit and settle. Something tells me that the Kerouac may have stumbled onto one of their secret projects.” Taylor bit her lip. “After all this time? I can’t believe they’d risk starting a war over something so petty as resources and territory.”“They’ve been doing it for years—undermining the United Earth government, throwing up extra red-tape and bureaucratic nonsense while they go out, establish new colonies and build up their own fleet, separate from IDF. Really, it’s the same pattern over centuries. They never change.” Ryten paused, reaching over to check the status of the power plant. As if reading his mind, Ensign Taylor asked, “Are they doing maintenance in engineering tonight?” “Not that I know of. So I’m not crazy then? You feel it too?” The throbbing had intensified. It felt just like the customary faint hum of the engines, only magnified slightly, almost imperceptibly. He raised his head to speak through the comm. “Engineering, something wrong with the plant?” A voice rang out of the speaker. “No, sir. There seems to be an imbalance in the phase of the generator. That might be why we’re feeling the shudder. I’ll see if we can’t lock down the source of the problem.” “Thank you, Lieutenant. Ryten out.” He turned to Ensign Taylor. “Wake up the chief engineer. Have him report to engineering.” “Aye, sir.” She busied herself with the command. “You think this is related to the missing ships?” The rumbling in the deckplate was now intense enough to hear. “I don’t know. But if it is I want to be ready.”


CHAPTER 5


Captain Granger looked up and down the conference table and around the room, trying hard to hide his anger from the equally angry faces of his senior staff. “Sir, it’s outrageous. Why now? Why not just wait until our scheduled decommission date?” His XO, Commander Haws, a grizzled old man from whom drifted the distinct odor of the previous night’s self-medicating, pounded a fist half-heartedly on the table. His frayed uniform was slightly disheveled, but at least he hadn’t brought a bottle to the meeting. “I know, Abe. It stinks to high heaven. But orders are orders.” “Are they just scrapping her? They can’t scrap my baby,” said his Chief Engineer, Commander Rayna Scott, a short middle-aged woman whose uniform was a perpetually greasy set of blue coveralls. She ran a greasy hand through her dull blonde hair. It was hard to tell if the gray speckling fringes came from her age or her work. “Ironically enough, that would be too expensive. But the muckety-mucks managed to procure funding from the Smithsonian to turn her into a museum.” Silence reigned around the table. Several jaws hung open. Commander Scott covered her face with a hand. Commander Haws broke the silence with a vulgar snort. “What a load of lukewarm rat piss. A museum? They’re turning the Old Bird into a goddamned museum?!” Granger nodded humorlessly. “It’s my understanding that she’ll be in permanent high-earth orbit just a few klicks from Valhalla Station. Given all the shops they’re building in the new annex … well, makes it easyfor tourists—” Another snort from Haws at the word “tourists” silenced Captain Granger, and he grit his teeth as he frowned back at them all. “Look, people, I hate this just as much as you do.” He looked up at the ceiling, which had water damage in several places. “The Old Bird is my home. I started my service to the fleet on the Constitution, and I intended to end it that way. But not like this.” Commander Scott cleared her throat. “Cap’n, would you be very disappointed if we suddenly had engine trouble?” “What?” Granger cocked his head. She hadn’t mentioned anything in the engineering briefing early in the day. “Oh, you know, I mean if we weren’t able to maneuver out to Lunar Base in time due to persistent unexplained engine failure? They’d have to reschedule, and we all know how much time it takes to shuffle the schedules of so many dignitaries and senators….” A smile tugged at Captain Granger’s lips. Haws snorted again, but this time with a grunt of approval. “Rayna, I …” he began, but stalled as he saw her dead-serious expression. “You’re a gem. No, I’m afraid this is it. This is goodbye. You’ll all be reassigned”—he turned to Commander Haws—“except for you, Abe. I expect you’ll probably take the plum retirement package they’ll offer you—” “Like hell …” began Haws with a grumble, before Granger cut him off. “And I can assure you that you’ll all have the highest recommendation from me.” He looked them all in the eye, one by one. The XO, his diminutive and greasy chief engineer, and the CAG—Tyler Pierce, who’d remained silent and scowling. Standing near the wall were the operations chief, Colonel Hanrahan—who commanded the marine contingent—and the chief medical officer, Doctor Wyatt. Half a dozen other men and women stared back at him from around the table. “It’s been an honor serving with you all, misfits and misanthropes included,”he added with a wink. He stood. The rest mirrored him. “One more thing. We’ll be taking on a new officer, Commander Shelby Proctor. She’ll oversee the conversion of the ship to its new, ahem, status. She’s been given operational authority aboard the ship for our remaining time here—hold on, Abe,” he held a hand out to touch his XO’s elbow. Haws had tensed when he mentioned operational authority. “You will all please defer to her. We’ve got to get the ship ready for tourists, you see,” he added, unable to keep the derision out of his voice. “Over my dead body. I’m the XO, Tim,” growled Haws. The captain sighed. “I wish it were different, Abe. I really do. Just—give her a chance. Let’s make our last few weeks here something we can be proud of.” He was tired. More tired than he’d ever been—even during that short bout with cancer five years previous. In a sense, he was relieved to be moving on. The officers filed out, followed by Granger and Haws, who grumbled, “Oh, I intend to.”
